# python-challenge-1
## The Challenge
This project is an example of designing an interactive ordering system from a
food truck menu using the Python skills learned so far in class. The starter
code python file for this assignment was provided by the instructors which is
part of one of the classroom activities. The user will be adapting the menu in
the starter code to allow customers to place an order, which includes storing
the customer's order and printing the receipt with the complete order list and
the total cost.
## Getting Started
Before starting this assignment, make sure the user has a GitHub account, and 
also VS Code or similar IDE that can run Python 3.10 installed on the user's
computer. Then take the following steps:
>*   Create a new respository in GitHub called "python-challenge-1" 
>    **DO NOT ADD TO AN EXISTING REPOSITORY.**
>*   Clone the new repository to the user's computer
>*   Inside the local Git repository, add the starter file "menu.py" from the
>    file downloads
>*   Push the changes just made to GitHub or GitLab.
## Project Execution
Using the starter code provided by the instructional staff, the user will first
create the order system, then prepare the order receipt. The starter code 
includes comments that the user can use as a guide for the necessary steps.

>### Order System
>1. Create an empty list. This list will later store a customer's order in
>dictionary format, as follows:
>~~~
>[
> {
> "Item name": "string",
> "Price": float,
> "Quantity": int
> },
> {
> "Item name": "string",
> "Price": float,
> "Quantity": int
> },
>]
>~~~
>2. After the sub-menu is printed, prompt the customer to enter their selection
>from the menu, saving it as a variable "menu_selection".
>3. Use input validation to check if the customer input "menu_selection" is a
>number. If it isn't, print an error message. If it is a number, convert the
>input to an integer and use it to check if it is in the keys of "menu_items".
>4. If the user input is not in the "menu_items" keys, print an error. 
> Otherwise, perform the following actions:
>*  Get the item name from the "menu_items" dictionary and store it as a
>variable.
>*  Ask the customer for the quantity of the menu item, using the item name
>variable in the question, and let them know that the quantity will default to 1
>if their input is invalid. Save their answer as a variable called "quantity".
>*  Check that the customer input is a number. If it isn't, set the "quantity"
>to the value 1. If it is a number, convert the variable to an integer.
>*  Append the customer's order to the order list in dictionary format with the
>following keys: "Item name" , "Price" , and "Quantity. You will need this
>information to print the receipt at the end of the order. The price should be
>found in the "menu_items" dictionary.
>5. Inside the continuous "while" loop that prompts the customer if they would
>like to keep ordering, write a "match:case" statement that checks for "y" or "n"
>(upper or lowercase), and includes a default option if neither letter is entered
>by the customer. The following actions should be performed for each case:
>*   "y" : Set the "place_order" variable to "True" and break from the continuous
>while loop.
>*   "n" : Set the place_order variable to "False" , print "Thank you for your
>order", and break from the continuous while loop.
>*   Default: Tell the customer to try again because they didn't type a valid
>input.
>
>### Order Receipt
>6. Create a "for" loop to loop through the order list.
>7. Inside the loop, save the value of each key as their own variable:
>"item_name" , "price" , and "quantity".
>8. Calculate the number of empty spaces that should be added to the display so
>that the receipt uses the following format:
>
>Item name                 | Price  | Quantity
>--------------------------|--------|----------
>Apple                     | $0.49  | 1
>Tea - Thai iced           | $3.99  | 2
>Fried banana              | $4.49  | 3
>
>9. Create the space strings as their own variables using string multiplication.
>10. Print the line for the receipt using the format in Step 8.
>11. Upon exiting the "for" loop, use list comprehension and "sum()" to
>calculate the total price of the order and display it to the customer. Make
>sure you multiply the price by the quantity in your list comprehension.
## Sources
The starter code was obtained in November 2023 from the instructional staff of
the OSU AI Bootcamp. The data for the datset was generated by edX Boot Camps
LLC.














